syllabus.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: 📖 Syllabus
# nav_exclude: true
nav_order: 3
---

# Syllabus 📖
{:.no_toc}

## Table of Contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}


{: .important }
> This syllabus is cross-posted in Classes\Content\Syllabus and on Discord #syllabus-rules.
> 
> The syllabus and calendar for this class are living documents and may be modified to better fit the needs of our class. I'll announce any changes I make in the announcements thread in #classroom.

---

# Course Description 🧐

This course focuses on genres of resistance &mdash; particularly the lyric essay &mdash; and what it means to write for social justice. Part-webinar, part-roleplay, part-workshop, you'll be introduced to the elements of poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction through reading, writing, and individual and cooperative play. Since social justice writing is writing that _does_ something to its audience, you'll regularly engage with, interpret (and create!) texts that model how content and form act together on readers. In doing so, you'll consider questions like: 

- How have we been shaped, personally and politically, by reading and writing? 
- How have systems of power and oppression shaped who and how we read; who and what we write about; how we compose and perceive our compositions; and which genres we consider "legitimate" genres?
- What potential impact can we &mdash; through what we write &mdash; have on our communities and institutions? 

---

# Learning Outcomes ✅

The idea that anyone masters anything in a semester is a myth. But you'll leave the class with at least a sense of:

- Existing arguments about the relationship between writing and social justice
- The role of the relationship between form and content in writing for social justice
- How intersectional feminist, queer, trans, and/or crip modes of writing operate
- What might belong in a literary canon of resistance
- How to write for social justice yourself

---

# Required Materials 💰

{ .note }
> All required readings are provided for free. They're uploaded to Classes\Content and are linked in the [Calendar](/calendar.md) on this website for your convenience.

In addition, you'll need: 

- A marble composition notebook for journaling by hand (if you're disabled and require assistive technology to write, please contact me).
- A short prose book of your choosing that you wouldn't mind parting with. It can be fiction, nonfiction, a book you already own, or a book bought for this purpose, but it has to be a book you're willing to destroy.

---

# Course Structure 🍎

This is an **online synchronous course that meets twice a week using Discord** for sync sessions and sync/async text chats. Outside of class, you'll read, write, and prepare for our sync class sessions, during which I'll facilitate discussion, answer and float questions, and help you interactively generate prompts and ideas for your writing.

**The server invite link is on Classes\Content\Syllabus**. If you're new to Discord, check out our [Quickstart Guide](/discord.md) or the [Beginner's Guide to Discord](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360045138571-Beginner-s-Guide-to-Discord) to get started and reach out if you need help!

## Technology 🌐

We'll use 2 platforms (plus occasional use of Classes) this semester. Here's what they're used for:

- **Discord**: Discussion forum for class meetings, text chats, communication, announcements, c
- **Course Website**: This site, where course content is posted.
- **Classes**: Platform for submitting assignments and viewing grades. You should be automatically added to Classes.

{: .important }
> We won't use Classes *except* for me to do enrollment verification, collect your major project submissions, and submit your grades.

---

# Grading Breakdown 💯

Participation | 40%
High-Stakes Writing | 50%
Low-Stakes Writing | 10%

## Participation 

You're expected to regularly, substantively participate through thoughtful, informal contributions in text channels and sync class sessions that reflect what we're learning organically reacting/replying to classmates; doing classwork in a relatively timely fashion; and attending coffee chats.

Participation takes a lot of forms! It means talking out loud, posting in #classroom and in #team, submitting writing activities in a timely fashion, reading together and "buddy-working" with peers. It means organically replying and reacting to your classmates' posts (no boring "discussion board"-style replies, please!), coming to coffee chats, helping your peers, etc. It means DMing me for clarification, or before an absence or a class you know will be an "off day" to ask me to say something in class for you. These are all measurable, valid forms of participation! If there's another form that works for you, or if you're anxious about how you’re participating, please proactively reach out to me so we can talk about it! After 5 weeks of low participation, we'll need to meet to discuss whether it makes sense for you to stay in the class or withdraw.

# Writing Assignments 📚

You'll do high-stakes (major, graded) and low-stakes (minor, ungraded) writing in this class.

### Low-Stakes (Ungraded) Writing

You'll briefly organize your thoughts in writing in threads on on Discord once or twice a week (check the Calendar for due dates) to synthesize your experience of reading texts and engaging in interactive fiction into writing that opens up new futurities. I try to open these threads in advance and leave them unlocked so you can post, reply, and reference at any time.

{: .important }
> Low-stakes writing is scored on the basis of completion (provided they demonstrate thought and care). Note that I'm unable to read late submissions except when warranted by extenuating circumstances or unless alternate deadlines were arranged in advance.

Each week, you'll either choose 1 [prompt](/prompts.md) (I list the options for each week on the [calendar](/calendar.md)) to guide how you write (and read) the texts for the week.

### High-Stakes (Graded) Writing

Over the course of the semester, you'll compose an anthology of rough drafts and false starts that borrow from the craft techniques of the assigned readings and that are generated through the interactive fiction and single-player journaling games we'll play together as a class or in teams for this purpose. A lot of this work will be drafted and commented on when we play together and when you submit low-stakes writing activities. Later in the semester, you'll submit an ungraded draft of this anthology and revise it using feedback from your teammates and me. 

{: .warning }
> For course policies, such as a description of the alt-grading system, attendance policy, disability accommodations, GenAI and academic integrity, and other information, check out [Course Policies](/policies.md).

Commit message:

Updated policies, added playlist page

syllabus.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: 📖 Syllabus
# nav_exclude: true
nav_order: 3
---

# Syllabus 📖
{:.no_toc}

## Table of Contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}


{: .important }
> This syllabus is cross-posted in Classes\Content\Syllabus and on Discord #syllabus-rules.
> 
> The syllabus and calendar for this class are living documents and may be modified to better fit the needs of our class. I'll announce any changes I make in the announcements thread in #classroom.

---

# Course Description 🧐

This course focuses on genres of resistance &mdash; particularly the lyric essay &mdash; and what it means to write for social justice. Part-webinar, part-roleplay, part-workshop, you'll be introduced to the elements of poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction through reading, writing, and individual and cooperative play. Since social justice writing is writing that _does_ something to its audience, you'll regularly engage with, interpret (and create!) texts that model how content and form act together on readers. In doing so, you'll consider questions like: 

- How have we been shaped, personally and politically, by reading and writing? 
- How have systems of power and oppression shaped who and how we read; who and what we write about; how we compose and perceive our compositions; and which genres we consider "legitimate" genres?
- What potential impact can we &mdash; through what we write &mdash; have on our communities and institutions? 

---

# Learning Outcomes ✅

The idea that anyone masters anything in a semester is a myth. But you'll leave the class with at least a sense of:

- Existing arguments about the relationship between writing and social justice
- The role of the relationship between form and content in writing for social justice
- How intersectional feminist, queer, trans, and/or crip modes of writing operate
- What might belong in a literary canon of resistance
- How to write for social justice yourself

---

# Required Materials 💰

{ .note }
> All required readings are provided for free. They're uploaded to Classes\Content and are linked in the [Calendar](/calendar.md) on this website for your convenience.

In addition, you'll need: 

- A marble composition notebook for journaling by hand (if you're disabled and require assistive technology to write, please contact me).
- A short prose book of your choosing that you wouldn't mind parting with. It can be fiction, nonfiction, a book you already own, or a book bought for this purpose, but it has to be a book you're willing to destroy.

---

# Course Structure 🍎

This is an **online synchronous course that meets twice a week using Discord** for sync sessions and sync/async text chats. Outside of class, you'll read, write, and prepare for our sync class sessions, during which I'll facilitate discussion, answer and float questions, and help you interactively generate prompts and ideas for your writing.

**The server invite link is on Classes\Content\Syllabus**. If you're new to Discord, check out our [Quickstart Guide](/discord.md) or the [Beginner's Guide to Discord](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/360045138571-Beginner-s-Guide-to-Discord) to get started and reach out if you need help!

## Technology/Platforms 🌐

We'll use 2 platforms (plus occasional use of Classes) this semester. Here's what they're used for:

- **Discord**: Discussion forum for class meetings, text chats, communication, announcements, c
- **Course Website**: This site, where course content is posted.
- **Classes**: Platform for submitting assignments and viewing grades. You should be automatically added to Classes.

{: .important }
> We won't use Classes *except* for me to do enrollment verification, collect your major project submissions, and submit your grades.

---

# Grading Breakdown 💯

Participation | 40%
High-Stakes Writing | 50%
Low-Stakes Writing | 10%

## Participation Scores

{: .important }
> If you select the "Check in Weekly" role on Discord in #get-roles, I'll encourage you to participate each week by DMing you every Monday with basic questions about how you're doing, if you're confused about the materials, and if you'd like to chat sometime. If you need help surmounting any anxiety about reaching out to your professors, choose this role, and reply to me when I reach out to you to get the conversation going!

You're expected to regularly, substantively participate through thoughtful, informal contributions in text channels and sync class sessions that reflect what we're learning organically reacting/replying to classmates; doing classwork in a relatively timely fashion; and attending coffee chats.

Participation takes a lot of forms! It means talking out loud, posting in #classroom and in #team, submitting writing activities in a timely fashion, reading together and "buddy-working" with peers. It means organically replying and reacting to your classmates' posts (no boring "discussion board"-style replies, please!), coming to coffee chats, helping your peers, etc. It means DMing me for clarification, or before an absence or a class you know will be an "off day" to ask me to say something in class for you. These are all measurable, valid forms of participation! If there's another form that works for you, or if you're anxious about how you’re participating, please proactively reach out to me so we can talk about it! After 5 weeks of low participation, we'll need to meet to discuss whether it makes sense for you to stay in the class or withdraw.

# Writing Assignments 📚

You'll do high-stakes (major, graded) and low-stakes (minor, ungraded) writing in this class.

### Low-Stakes (Ungraded) Writing

You'll briefly organize your thoughts in writing in threads on on Discord once or twice a week (check the Calendar for due dates) to synthesize your experience of reading texts and engaging in interactive fiction into writing that opens up new futurities. I try to open these threads in advance and leave them unlocked so you can post, reply, and reference at any time.

{: .important }
> Low-stakes writing is scored on the basis of completion (provided they demonstrate thought and care). Note that I'm unable to read late submissions except when warranted by extenuating circumstances or unless alternate deadlines were arranged in advance.

Each week, you'll either choose 1 of the writing prompts listed for that week, then follow the instructions for that prompt as given on the [Writing Prompts](/prompts.md) page. 

### High-Stakes (Graded) Writing

Over the course of the semester, you'll compose an anthology of rough drafts and false starts that borrow from the craft techniques of the assigned readings and that are generated through the interactive fiction and single-player journaling games we'll play together as a class or in teams for this purpose. A lot of this work will be drafted and commented on when we play together and when you submit low-stakes writing activities. Later in the semester, you'll submit an ungraded draft of this anthology and revise it using feedback from your teammates and me. 

{: .warning }
> For course policies, such as a description of the alt-grading system, attendance policy, disability accommodations, GenAI and academic integrity, and other information, check out [Course Policies](/policies.md).
